well the sea horse is an unusual fish
normally female animals carry a child
but sea horses do it the other way
around
for 9 to 45 days the future father
carries the eggs inside a special pouch
until the birth process begins then the
male opens his brood pouch
and squeezes out the children
[Music]
the female anaconda finds the deepest
puddle
and spends her pregnancy in it she will
starve for about seven months while
pregnant
then she will give birth to 40 children
that make up 30 percent of her body
weight
her babies are completely independent
and will explore the world around them
the surinam toad looks like a normal
toad but is totally flat
unlike most animals this one carries its
future children
not inside but on its back female toads
have special holes on their backs for
each egg where the babies develop after
three to four months the little surname
toads wake up
and crawl out of the pockets on mom's
back
[Music]
kangaroos are born just one month after
conception
but they're not yet ready for life in
the outside world
newborn kangaroos are smaller than an
inch
these tiny creatures crawl into their
mom's pouch using their front legs
after 195 days the kangaroo grows big
and strong enough to leave the pouch
sea urchins lay more than 2 million eggs
but not all survive
male and female urchins throw something
like a cloud into the water
which contains the future offspring in
the next few hours if the egg cloud is
not eaten by other sea creatures
the eggs will turn into a ball with
microscopic hairs
and then form a skeleton at this point
they're ready for their own reproduction
most animals either lay eggs or have a
live birth
but the jackson's chameleon does both
and gives birth up to 30 young at a time
the female bears the eggs minus a shell
right inside her body
instead of laying them as many other
chameleon species do
in the yellow head jawfish family a dead
fish takes care of the future offspring
the male broods the eggs inside his
mouth
after the birth the male carries his
babies in this
safe place the brooding method lets the
father keep his children safe
because he can swim away from danger
with the babies in his mouth
sloths spend most of their time on the
treetops
their birth process is extravagant the
female lets her hind legs dangle and
clings to a branch
only by her front ones and gives birth
in this position
the baby sloth grabs the mother's fur
right after birth
and climbs to her chest
the velvet spider builds a special room
for giving birth and child care
just like weaving a spider web she
constructs a cocoon around her where she
lays up to 80
eggs then she makes a hole in the cocoon
so that the offspring can escape but
this hole is too small for her
so she will never come out for two weeks
she will feed the hatch spiders until
they become independent
[Music]
whales the biggest mammals in the animal
kingdom give birth underwater
so their babies have to rise all the way
up to the surface to take their first
breath
mom oil will feed the baby with 54
fat milk for the next four months until
it grows enough to eat on its own
[Music]
octopuses give birth only once in a
lifetime
one of the arms of the male octopus is
adapted to fertilize females
some octopus separate the arm from their
body and give it to the female
after laying eggs female octopuses
circulate water currents over the eggs
to clean them
and protect them from predators
now imagine giving birth to a baby the
size of a four-year-old
poor mom but that's what kiwi birds do
their eggs can weigh up to a quarter of
their body mass
to produce such a big egg female kiwis
have to eat three times more than usual
shingleback lizards also have a
difficult pregnancy
these animals normally have up to two
babies which doesn't seem so bad
but the babies can make up a third of
the mother's weight
this like a human giving birth to a
seven-year-old child
giraffes are some of the tallest
terrestrial animals which has an effect
on the birth process
in a giraffe birth the baby first pokes
out the front hooves
then the nose and the entire head within
an hour the baby is born
before taking the first breath the baby
giraffe falls from the height of six and
a half
feet to the ground
[Music]
hammerhead sharks can give birth without
mating with another shark
basically they're just making copies of
themselves
this was first discovered in 1999 in a
nebraska zoo
there are just a few other animal
species like some geckos and lizards
that can reproduce this way
porcupines are known for their sharp
quills in the womb
these quills are soft but right after
birth
when coming in contact with air for the
first time they become
hard and sharp
naked mole rats are incredibly
reproductive
they live in colonies and have a queen
who is the only female to give birth
first-time moms can have up to 15 babies
but every litter after the number of
babies grows
at her peak a mole rat queen can have up
to 33 babies
which is the largest litter size of any
mammal on earth
hippopotamus pregnancies last about
eight months despite the animal's big
size
when ready to give birth hippo moms
leave the herd for two weeks
to establish a strong connection with
their babies
hippo calves are born underwater so they
learn to swim
from the very beginning
[Music]
zebras have a really hard time after
birth both for mom and the baby
zebras are an animal who can see a new
moored baby as a potential threat in the
future
so when a baby's zebra comes out a male
zebra can attack it immediately
the mother protects her offspring often
not having any time to rest
[Music]
elephants have the longest gestation
period of all mammals
lasting more than 18 months though they
live up to 70 years
most elephants won't have more than four
babies
when the elephant mom is ready to give
birth other elephants from
the herd form a protective circle around
her until she delivers the baby
at birth they can weigh up to 260 pounds
to protect them from predators barnacle
geese
lay eggs on a cliff at 400 feet which is
the height of a 36 story building
when the eggs hatch the little chicks
face a problem
there's no food nearby because they're
on a rock so
at just a few days old they jump off the
cliff
and try to make a soft landing
although marine iguanas don't have to
leap off a cliff
they're also in a hurry soon after
they're born
female marine iguanas lay eggs in an
underground cave that they
dig this is a safe place to hide from
predators
but sooner or later the baby iguanas
come out of these caves to eat
and this is the moment when snakes start
to hunt them
the fastest and strongest iguanas
survive to enjoy
the food